# Buddy Flask - Homework 04 - Analyzing the International Space Station Position and Velocity Data

## What to Expect?

Within the folder, you will find a python script named "iss_tracker.py". This file contains different app routes that
will help the user obtain and manipulate parts of the data. 

## The ISS Data Set

So, how exactly are you supposed to access the data set? Great question! You would need to open up a browser and visit
this link: **[ISS Data Set](https://spotthestation.nasa.gov/trajectory_data.cfm)**

From there, you will see that you have the option to download the data set as a TXT file or an XML file. For the 
purposes of this python script, you would need to download the XML file. The data set provides position and velocity
data generated by the ISS Trajectory Operations and Planning Officer flight controllers at NASA!

## The Flask App and How to Use it

### What is it?
The flask application is written in the python script "iss_tracker.py". It is mainly used for querying the ISS position 
and velocity data through various app routes!

### How to Access it?
In order to actually run the application:

1. Log into your vm in two seperate command line windows using:
``username-vm``
2. Then in one of the windows run the debugger server using:
``flask --app app --debug run``
3. Once the server is running, you can then start inputting the different queries in the other window you logged into
4. To run the queries, you must use the command:
``curl localhost:5000``

## Try it on Your Own!

### What are the Different Queries?
In this python script, there are four different routes you can experiment with.

1. If you want to retrieve the whole entire data set, you can input:
``curl localhost:5000/``
This will return the whole entire data set as a dictionary. So if you see your screen flash with a bunch of numbers, 
do not be alarmed! That is just the computer communicating that it was able to turn the XML file into a readable 
dictionary for you to manipulate.

2. If you want to see all of the Epochs in the data set, you can input:
``curl localhost:5000/epochs``
This will return all of the Epochs ***ONLY***. You will multiple lines that look like:

> 2023-048T12:04:00.000Z

3. If you want to see the state vectors for a specific Epoch, you can input:
``curl localhost:5000/epochs/(an integer)``
So, if you wanted to see the second Epoch data set, you would want to put:
``curl localhost:5000/epochs/2``
This will return the data set that belongs to the specific Epoch! You will see something along the lines of:

> X = -5998.4652356788401
>
> Y= 391.26194859011099
>
> Z = -3164.26047476557
>
> X_DOT = -2.8799691318087701
>
> Y_DOT = -5.2020406581448801
>
> Z_DOT = 4.8323394499086101

4. If you want to see the speed for a specific Epoch in the data set, you can input:
``curl localhost:5000/epochs/(an integer)/speed``
So if you wanted to see the second Epoch's speed, you would type:
``curl localhost:5000/epochs/2/speed``
This will return a float! 

> 7.573

